# UK National Census Data<br/>STAT  471 Final Project<br/>Kit Wiggin<br/>Dec 19, 2021

This analysis explores data from the 2011 Census of the UK. It considers a set of categorical variables representing an individual’s survey responses and fits models that attempt to classify people as healthy or unhealthy, trained on this self-reported metric. The goal is to identify attributes that provide a notable increase in classification accuracy when compared to predictions based primarily on Age, which is intuitively a very significant indicator for this response variable. As well as this, the analysis stipulates that any features that achieve this must not have some direct link to age that might allow them to behave as some kind of proxy.

After some cleaning, the data consists of 457,123 people characterised by 15 socio-demographic, categorical features and a binary response variable representing healthiness. Although there are no null entries, some attributes have an additional level used when some question doesn’t apply to someone. For example, a 3 year old would (probably) use this level for a question regarding their current employment.

The analysis fits one model using just the age feature as well as six more using the entire feature set. This list includes a multivariate logistic regression, ridge and lasso-penalised regressions, a standard tree model, random forest, and a tree-based boosting model. Following this, it considers the differences in misclassification error between the models in order to examine the most significant features of the best performing models and how they relate to age.

Due to the dataset being inherently more liable to bias than variance, the regression penalisation models don’t perform nearly as well as the trees, where the boosting method just beats the random forest to claim the top spot. Looking at the most important features in both of these models, four appear to stand out and of these, only one seems to demonstrate a clear risk of proxying the effect of age. Therefore, three features are highlighted as improving prediction accuracy, on top of and independently of age.

